Start by adding the sample web log data to Kibana.


You can import it by clicking Try our sample data.


Or you can import it from the homepage by clicking on Load a data set and a Kibana dashboard under Add sample data.


Click Add Data under the Sample Web Logs data pane.


Click View Data to pull up the dashboard.


Answer the following questions:


In the last 7 days, how many unique visitors were located in India?
Answer: 251


In the last 24 hours, of the visitors from China, how many were using Mac OSX?
Answer: 8


In the last 2 days, what percentage of visitors received 404 errors? How about 503 errors?
Answer: 404: 100% and 503: 100%


In the last 7 days, what country produced the majority of the traffic on the website?
Answer: China


Of the traffic that's coming from that country, what time of day had the highest amount of activity?
Answer: 12 p.m.


List all the types of downloaded files that have been identified for the last 7 days, along with a short description of each file type (use Google if you aren't sure about a particular file type).


Answer:
gz: .gz files are compressed files created using the gzip compression utility.

css: .css files can help define font, size, color, spacing, border and location of HTML information on a webpage. They are downloaded with their .html counterparts and rendered by the browser.

zip: A lossless compression format. A .zip file may contain one or more files or directories that have been compressed.

deb: A file with the .deb file extension is a Debian (Linux) Software Package file. These files are installed when using the apt package manager.

rpm: .rpm file formats are a Red Hat Software Package file. RPM stands for Red Hat Package Manager.


Look at the chart that shows Unique Visitors Vs. Average Bytes.


Locate the time frame in the last 7 days with the most amount of bytes (activity).


In your own words, is there anything that seems potentially strange about this activity?
Answer: A single user used over 16,000 bytes 


Filter the data by this event.


What is the timestamp for this event?
Answer: Mar 25, 2021 @ 15:55.


What kind of file was downloaded?
Answer: gz


From what country did this activity originate?
Answer: China


What HTTP response codes were encountered by this visitor?
Answer: 200 OK


Switch over to the Kibana Discover page to see more details about this activity.


What is the source IP address of this activity?
Answer: 1.145.31.121


What are the geo coordinates of this activity?
Answer: { "lat": 28.28980556, "lon": -81.43708333 }


What OS was the source machine running?
Answer: win 8


What is the full URL that was accessed?
Answer:https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/kibana/kibana-6.3.2-linux-x86_64.tar.gz


From what website did the visitor's traffic originate?
Answer: elastic.com


Finish your investigation with a short overview of your insights.


What do you think the user was doing?
Answer: User downloaded tar.gz file from kibana for use on linux 


Was the file they downloaded malicious? If not, what is the file used for?
No. The file was likely a compressed data archive.


Was there anything that seems suspicious about this activity?
Is any of the traffic you inspected potentially outside of compliance guidelines?
Answer: No, the user was referred to the kibana download from elastic.co, which is normal.